README.md, before:

# dotfiles

This repository contains my personal config files. It is managed using [GNU Stow](#gnu-stow).

> [!NOTE]
> The structure of `dotfiles` mirrors that of my `$HOME` (`~`) directory.


## Packages

This repository contains configuration for, or relies on the system having, the packages outlined in this section. 

> [!WARNING]
> This is **not** an exhaustive list of the packages referenced by this repository.


### GNU Stow

Download GNU Stow using a package manager:

```sh
sudo apt install stow
```

Create symbolic links for all files in the directory:

```sh
stow .
```

This command will place symbolic links from `dotfiles/*` in `~/*`. If a file exists at the path that GNU Stow should put a symbolic link, this command will fail.

To ensure `stow` creates symbolic links in place of existing files, use the `--adopt` flag: 

```sh
stow --adopt .
```

> [!WARNING]
> This command will replace the file in this directory (`dotfiles/*`) with the file in the target directory (`~/*`). Ensure changes are committed to git before running this command.


### pnpm

Bash completion for `pnpm` is included in `completion-for-pnpm.bash`, which was generated by the following command:

```bash
pnpm completion bash > ~/completion-for-pnpm.bash
echo 'source ~/completion-for-pnpm.bash' >> ~/.bashrc
```

## Resources

- [Stow has forever changed the way I manage my dotfiles](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y6XCebnB9gs)

Commit message:

feat: add tmux-resurrect, alias for dotfiles session

README.md, after:

# dotfiles

This repository contains my personal config files. It is managed using [GNU Stow](#gnu-stow).

> [!NOTE]
> The structure of `dotfiles` mirrors that of my `$HOME` (`~`) directory.


## Packages

This repository contains configuration for, or relies on the system having, the packages outlined in this section. 

> [!WARNING]
> This is **not** an exhaustive list of the packages referenced by this repository.


### GNU Stow

Download GNU Stow using a package manager:

```sh
sudo apt install stow
```

Create symbolic links for all files in the directory:

```sh
stow .
```

This command will place symbolic links from `dotfiles/*` in `~/*`. If a file exists at the path that GNU Stow should put a symbolic link, this command will fail.

To ensure `stow` creates symbolic links in place of existing files, use the `--adopt` flag: 

```sh
stow --adopt .
```

> [!WARNING]
> This command will replace the file in this directory (`dotfiles/*`) with the file in the target directory (`~/*`). Ensure changes are committed to git before running this command.


### tmux

#### TPM

My `tmux` configuration uses [Tmux Plugin Manager](https://github.com/tmux-plugins/tpm?tab=readme-ov-file#tmux-plugin-manager) to install and load `tmux` plugins.


#### tmux-resurrect

We want to have `tmux-resurrect` so that we can set up alias(es) to quickly open and close sessions across restarts:

```bash
set -g @plugin 'tmux-plugins/tmux-resurrect'
```

### pnpm

Bash completion for `pnpm` is included in `completion-for-pnpm.bash`, which was generated by the following command:

```bash
pnpm completion bash > ~/completion-for-pnpm.bash
echo 'source ~/completion-for-pnpm.bash' >> ~/.bashrc
```

## Resources

- [Stow has forever changed the way I manage my dotfiles](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y6XCebnB9gs)
